All graphics are stored as 2-bit bitplane data. Either RLE compressed (.pak) or raw (.raw).
I recommend using IFFMaster v1.0 for Amiga to convert the files to/from .iff. This free program can
be somewhat hard to find on the internet, but be patient and you will find it.

There is unfortunately no simple method of editing the graphics, but I will explain the difficult
process for Windows users... Other users will need to compile ptpack.c/ptunpack.c for their OS.

---- EDITING COMPRESSED FILES (.PAK) ----

To edit f.ex. ptaboutbox.pak in Windows, do the following:
 1) Go to the "pak" directory
 2) Run "ptunpack.exe ptaboutbox.pak" from a command prompt (this will spit out ptaboutbox.raw)
 3) Open IFFMaster on Amiga, go to Project->Load Picture and select our new ptaboutbox.raw
 4) Here comes the difficult part. You have to know the dimensions for the image!
    In this case it's 200x55. Enter 200 in the width box and 55 in the height box.
    Press enter in each edit box to confirm the inputted values. Press 2 on the keyb
    to select 2 bitplanes mode. Press "Load!".
 5) Go to Project->Save Picture->as IFF/ILBM
 6) Open the newly saved .iff file from IFFMaster in f.ex. Photoshop, do the edits you need
    (do NOT introduce new colors!) then save the file (not "Save As"). Don't worry about the colors
    being off, they will be right in PT.
 7) Now open the newly saved .iff in IFFMaster. Press 2 on the keyboard after load to set to 2-bit
    bitplanes mode, and save as ptaboutbox.raw (Project->Save Picture->as raw data).
 8) Make sure ptaboutbox.raw is now in the "pak" folder, and that it overwrote the old file
 9) Run "ptpack.exe ptaboutbox.raw" (this will spit out and overwrite ptaboutbox.pak)
10) Some graphics have a specificed byte length in the PT source code and needs updating. In this case,
    you need to update AboutBoxSize to have the correct filesize for the new file (f.ex. 1730).
    Search for ";---- Graphics Data ----" (without the quotes) with a text editor and you fill find
    the section.


---- EDITING RAW FILES (.RAW) ----

To edit f.ex. ptmainscreen.raw in Windows, do the following:
 1) Go to the "raw" directory
 2) Open IFFMaster on Amiga, go to Project->Load Picture and select ptmainscreen.raw
 4) Here comes the difficult part. You have to know the dimensions for the image!
    In this case it's 320x256. Enter 320 in the width box and 256 in the height box.
    Press enter in each edit box to confirm the inputted values. Press 2 on the keyb
    to select 2 bitplanes mode. Press "Load!".
 5) Go to Project->Save Picture->as IFF/ILBM
 6) Open the newly saved .iff file from IFFMaster in f.ex. Photoshop, do the edits you need
    (do NOT introduce new colors!) then save the file (not "Save As"). Don't worry about the colors
    being off, they will be right in PT.
 7) Now open the newly saved .iff in IFFMaster. Press 2 on the keyboard after load to set to 2-bit
    bitplanes mode, and save as ptmainscreen.raw (Project->Save Picture->as raw data).
 8) Make sure ptmainscreen.raw is now in the "raw" folder, and that it overwrote the old file
 9) Some graphics has a specificed byte length in the PT source code. In this case, you don't
    need to change anything for ptmainscreen.raw. Read line 10) above!
   

Sorry for not writing down the dimensions for all the graphics files, I have simply forgotten most of
them...
- Olav "8bitbubsy" Sørensen

PS: If you know a simpler method for editing the graphics, let me know!
    You can contact me through the email address found at the bottom of 16-bits.org

EOF