All graphics are 2-bit bitplane data. RLE compressed (.pak) or raw (.raw).

I recommend using IFFMaster v1.0 for Amiga to convert the files to/from .iff.
This free program can be somewhat hard to find on the internet, but be patient
and you will find it.

I am unfortunately not aware of a simple way to edit the graphics, but I will
explain the difficult process for Windows users... Other users will need to
compile ptpack.c/ptunpack.c for their operating system.

---- EDITING COMPRESSED FILES (.PAK) ----

To edit f.ex. ptaboutbox.pak in Windows, do the following:
 1) Go to the "pak" directory
 2) Run "ptunpack.exe ptaboutbox.pak" from a command prompt
    (this will create ptaboutbox.raw).
 3) Open IFFMaster on Amiga, go to Project->Load Picture and select the new
    ptaboutbox.raw.
 4) Here comes the difficult part. You have to know the dimensions for the
    image! In this case it's 200x55. Enter 200 in the width box and 55 in the
    height box. Press ENTER in each edit box to confirm the inputted values.
    Press 2 on the keyboard to select 2 bitplanes mode. Press "Load!".
 5) Go to Project->Save Picture->as IFF/ILBM
 6) Open the newly saved .iff file from IFFMaster in f.ex. Photoshop, do the
    edits you need (do NOT introduce new colors!) then save the file
    (not "Save As"). Don't worry about the colors being off, they will be right
    in ProTracker.
 7) Now open the newly saved .iff in IFFMaster. Press 2 on the keyboard after
    load to select 2 bitplanes mode, and save as ptaboutbox.raw
    (Project->Save Picture->as raw data).
 8) Make sure ptaboutbox.raw is now in the "pak" folder, and that it overwrote
    the old file.
 9) Run "ptpack.exe ptaboutbox.raw" (this will overwrite ptaboutbox.pak)
10) Some graphics have a specificed byte length in the PT source code and need
    updating. In this case, you need to update AboutBoxSize to have the correct
    filesize for the new file (f.ex. 1730).
    Search for ";---- Graphics Data ----" (without the quotes) with a text
    editor and you fill find the section.


---- EDITING RAW FILES (.RAW) ----

To edit f.ex. ptmainscreen.raw, do the following:
 1) Go to the "raw" directory
 2) Open IFFMaster on Amiga, go to Project->Load Picture and select
    ptmainscreen.raw.
 4) Here comes the difficult part. You have to know the dimensions for the
    image! In this case it's 320x256. Enter 320 in the width box and 256 in the
    height box. Press ENTER in each edit box to confirm the inputted values.
    Press 2 on the keyboard to select 2 bitplanes mode. Press "Load!".
 5) Go to Project->Save Picture->as IFF/ILBM
 6) Open the newly saved .iff file from IFFMaster in f.ex. Photoshop, do the
    edits you need (do NOT introduce new colors!) then save the file
    (not "Save As"). Don't worry about the colors being off, they will be right
    in ProTracker.
 7) Now open the newly saved .iff in IFFMaster. Press 2 on the keyboard after
    load to select 2 bitplanes mode, and save as ptmainscreen.raw
    (Project->Save Picture->as raw data).
 8) Make sure ptmainscreen.raw is now in the "raw" folder, and that it
    overwrote the old file.
 9) Some graphics have a specificed byte length in the PT source code. In this
    case, you don't need to change anything for ptmainscreen.raw.
    Read 10) above!
   

Sorry for not writing down the graphics dimensions, I have simply forgotten
most of them...
